# Project 2
## Project 2

The Maze Solution Finder is the first program that works with recursion. It uses the previous program and the GUI interface and is able to find solutions to different mazes using a recursive method. It can take mazes from an encoded file, a picture, and you can even create your own maze.

## Objective

Project 2 is the first program using recursion. To show this recursion method, we wanted to be able to solve a maze. The basis of the program was to have the computer "guess" where the exit is one move at a time, and checks to see if it has reached the solution. If it has not, it then moves again.

## Running the Program

In this directory, there are 2 files that can be executed. You can run the packaged (.jar) file through the command line or the source code (.java) through the command line.

### Running the .jar file through command line:

In a command line, after navigating to the correct directory, type the following commands:
java -jar MazeSolutionFinder.jar

### Running the .java files through command line

In a command line, after navigating to the correct directory, type the following commands:
javac *.java
java MazeSolutionFinder

## Using the Program

To use the program, you must select whether you want to load a maze from a file or a picture. It is possible to do either.

**If loading from file:** File should be in .txt format. To format the file, it should have the (height) (width) at the beginning of the file, and then walls are marked by astericks. Test files are in the Project 2 repository.

**If loading from picture:** Pictures **MUST** be generated by the website given in the program [website](https://keesiemeijer.github.io/maze-generator/#generate). Ensure that the wall thickness is 10, the background color is white (#FFFFFF), and the maze color is black (#000000). This program will be able to take the image generated and convert it into a .maze file that is filled with the same contents as if it were from a file. 

To start the maze, click any white square and that is the starting position of the solver.

Within the program there are multiple options. You can load a maze from another file or picture in the "Load Maze" dropdown menu. You can also create a new maze using the controls given by the program when the option is clicked. There are also options to change certain variables within the "Change" dropdown menu. Here you change the speed at which the maze is solved. By default, it is set at 100ms, and can be set from 1-1000 ms.

## Limitations

In this program, there are some limitations. This includes the fact that it uses recursion, so it is slow at solving larger mazes, unless the solution is close to the starting point. At a certain size, you can run into StackOverflowErrors and can eventually crash the program.
